Better duplicate detection (#3696)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-transport.md

A receiver MUST discard a newly unprotected packet unless it is certain that it
has not processed another packet with the same packet number from the same
packet number space. Duplicate suppression MUST happen after removing packet
protection for the reasons described in Section 9.3 of {{QUIC-TLS}}.

Endpoints that track individual packets for the purposes of detecting duplicates

> might accumulate excessive state.  The data required for detecting duplicates

Reviewer: Would it be possible for us to recommend tracking ranges? For example, it might be a good idea to state like: _For the purposes of detecting duplicates, endpoints might track individual packets or ranges of consecutive packet numbers, though tracking individual packets might accumulate excessive state._

Author: I considered that, but I don't feel like a recommendation is necessary.  It's the natural implementation strategy because of how we structured ACK frames, so there is enough bias there.  But it crosses somewhat over from "here are the pitfalls" into "here is how you build a stack" too much for me.

Reviewer: Thank you for elaborating. This works for me.

detecting duplicates can be limited by maintaining a minimum packet number below
which all packets are immediately dropped.  Any minimum needs to account for
large variations in round trip time, which includes the possibility that a peer

> might probe a network path with a much longer round trip time; see

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
might probe network paths with a much larger round trip times; see
```

> path; see {{migration}}.

Reviewer: I think it might be a good idea to change this sentence to something like: _In setting a minimum packet number endpoints **have** to account for large variations in round trip time that could significantly delay packets, especially if a peer probes a different network path; see {migration}}._

The changes are use of "have to" rather than "might," and omitting the mention of migration.

Migration is not an issue, because when the peer migrates to a path with higher latency there would be no loss, and because when the peer migrates to a path with lower latency, the loss would be a one-time effect that can be recovered.

In contrast to that, for path migration to work, endpoints have to be capable of deduplicating packets with significant reordering. Without that, the peer cannot reliably probe a path while sending data.

I think this is essentially a requirement regardless of how we phrase it.

Author: I see how you might pick on probing exclusively.  I'll remove migration and just identify probing.

s/have/need means the same to me.  It's 6919 language of a different form :)

Author: Oh, I see.  I was thinking that you don't need to do this if you disable_active_migration.  Which is why the probing mention is important.

A receiver MUST discard a newly unprotected packet unless it is certain that it
has not processed another packet with the same packet number from the same
packet number space. Duplicate suppression MUST happen after removing packet
protection for the reasons described in Section 9.3 of {{QUIC-TLS}}.

Endpoints that track individual packets for the purposes of detecting duplicates
might accumulate excessive state.  The data required for detecting duplicates
can be limited by maintaining a minimum packet number below which all packets
are immediately dropped.  Endpoints that use a minimum packet number need to

> ensure that any value does not cause delayed packets to be dropped.  Any minimum

Reviewer 3: This doesn't apply to arbitrarily delayed packets, otherwise every minimum value will be too high.

Reviewer 4: I think I'd drop this sentence.

Author: This was the entire point of the issue though.
